The generation of power from the reduction of fossil fuels is the biggest challenge for  the  next  half  century.  The  idea  of  converting  solar  energy  into  electrical  energy  using photovoltaic panels holds its place in the front row compared to other renewable sources. But the continuous change in  the relative angle  of the sun  with reference to  the  earth reduces  the  watts delivered by solar panel. In this  context solar tracking system  is the best  alternative to increase the  efficiency  of  the  photovoltaic  panel.  Solar  trackers  move  the  payload  towards  the  sun throughout the day. The aim of this project is to present a solar energy collection technology by a photovoltaic cell. To present this efficient solar distributed generation system, a solar tracker is designed, built and tested. The tracker actively tracks the sun and changes its position accordingly to maximize the power output. The designed tracking system consists of sensors, comparators and microcontroller operated control circuits to drive motors and gear bearing arrangements with supports and mountings. Two geared stepper motors are used to move the solar panel so that sun’s beam is able to remain aligned with the solar panel. The built system has morecalculated power gain compared to a static solar panel. In this project dual axis sun tracking system is reviewed and it’s pros and cons  are  discussed  in  detail.  The  results  presented  in this  review  confirm  that dual  axis  tracking  system  is  more  efficient  compared  to  other  tracking  systems.
